# Appstrument
Appstrument is an application by Amy Shin for her Senior Projects class at Villanova University. Inspired by her passion for music and commitment to creating a Capella compositions of popular music, when she first created the idea for Appstrument, it was meant for users to be able to layer different beats from various instruments to ultimately create their own musical piece. Running into many errors that will be mentioned later in this paper, she instead created an application for users to find related artists, see a compilation of all of an artists’ albums, buy the albums searched with a click of a button, see the price, genre, and date released of the album, and also save albums they want to go back to on a list. Though the application was initially called Appstrument, it was later changed to iMusic since Appstrument did not seem to make sense after changing the original purpose of the program.

# Prerequisites
Download Xcode available in Apple's website. Depending on how much memory is available on the user's computer and what kind of software is being developed, download the necessary simulators provided under Preferences > Components > Simulators. Keep in mind when chosing the type of programming language one wants to utilize for their program that Apple products are mainly coded in Swift and Objective C is not nearly as popular of a programming language. Fully understand and research into the language chosen through various utilities offered on the internet.

# Coding
It is important to create a visualization of the program one is creating before beginning for it could be problematic in the long run. It also is a great way to begin coding especially if one uses a pseudocode. Though it is important to at least familiarize oneself before starting the coding process, it is almost impossible to not have to take a few steps back and do further research.

# API Reference
In Appstrument, the API used was from iTunes. Applying the API to my program was probably the most difficult part of creating the project. but after watching a few videos thoroughly it came together piece by piece. 

# Conclusion
Overall, this application was extremely stressful. Even though during the summer when I had fumbled around with Xcode creating small applications I found making applications intellectually stimulating, I was not prepared in making an application with little help from others since many people are not familiar with this programming language. If I were to do things differently, I would have first chosen Swift for the fact that it is a more current language and there could have been more access to help from my peers. I was very disappointed that I could not get my original idea of Appstrument to work as planned especially since I had wanted to use the application for my a Capella group. Even so, after hours of research and mistakes, I not only definitely feel more experienced in using the language but also feel that I have gained a lot more knowledge on programming languages overall.
